we have two ears and one mouth so we
should listen more than we say xeno
obsidium around 300 BC Zeno of Citian
founded the stoic school of philosophy
he published a list of works on ethics
physics logic and other subjects
including his most famous work Zeno's
republic which does sound quite similar
to a dialogue authored by a philosopher
named Plato
despite Zeno being the founder of
stoicism and having written extensively
he's hardly cited in modern stoic
literature the reason for this is simple
none of his works have survived the good
news is that other authors wrote about
him biographer Diogenes lights use
preserved most details about his life
including a series of fragments that
give us an insight into what he taught
this video is a short essay about xenos
life and philosophy
[Music]
there's no certainty about xenos ethnic
and cultural background except that this
nickname was the Phoenicians and that
Diogenes described him as a haggard
dark-skinned man his father gave him
books about Socrates that he brought
back from his travels as a merchant and
thus Zeno became obsessed with
philosophy he became a pupil of the
famous cynic kritis of Phoebus and among
his other teachers were Polly Moe and
still beau later in life Zeno started
teaching himself in the Stowe apoikia
lay his pupils were called Zeno nians
first but later became known as the
Stoics Xena was concerned with the whole
spectrum of stoic philosophy like logic
epistemology and the nature of the
universe which according to his view
primarily consists of matter and is
governed by a divine principle God
therefore isn't apart from the universe
it is the universe this is a quote by
Zeno that Roman philosophers Cicero
preserved that which exercises reason is
more excellent than that which does not
exercise reason there's nothing more
excellent than the universe therefore
the universe exercises reason and quote
well that's a hell of a statement to
ponder over it definitely lies at the
basis of stoic belief that the universe
is governed by an intelligent and
primordial matter called logos which can
also be called universal reason or fate
living a life according to reason
therefore is living life in accordance
with nature this is the underlying idea
of amor fati which means the love of
fate in regards to ethics
Zeno's view seems compatible with the
later stoic definitions of them simply
put virtue is the only good and as
opposed to virtue there is a vice the
end goal is reaching a state of
eudaimonia which is human flourishing
and this can be achieved by the pursuit
of virtue or as Zeno stated happiness is
a good flow of life a bit more detailed
description of eudaimonia we can find in
the works of Diogenes who quoted Zeno as
follows the end may be defined as
in accordance with nature or in other
words in accordance with our own human
nature as well as that of the universe
and quote Zeno also laid the foundation
for the system of indifference things
that aren't necessarily good or bad but
can nevertheless contribute to
self-preservation or destruction
he saw the human tendency for
self-preservation as a part of human
nature which isn't virtuous on its own
but could contribute towards one's
efforts towards it this sets the Stoics
apart from the cynics who rejected
possessions and everything that we Falls
the body according to stoicism
indifference do have value and we should
pursue them but not cling to them as
possessions that will make our life
better but as a catalyst for living in
agreement with nature for example wealth
itself doesn't lead to virtue but it
does lead to self-preservation which can
assist in the pursuit of virtue
another example sickness doesn't lead to
Vice but it is not a preferable thing
because its destructive nature goes
against self-preservation Zeno also
stated that bad feelings are commotions
of the mind repugnant to reason and
against nature so even though emotions
are human they are a sign of simply put
that reasoning and could be overcome by
getting a clear understanding of how
life works grievance because of death
could be overcome by accepting that
death is a natural and inherent part of
life and our frustrations with bad
parents could be overcome by the
knowledge that at the end of the day no
one is entitled to good parents we see
that all these misfortunes happen
according to natural laws which are
fundamentally reasonable about xenos
death there's no consensus as different
sources tell different things also it is
impossible to know what Zeno really
thought because none of his works
survived some say that his contributions
to stoic philosophy as we know it were
of high significance while others
believe that other philosophers like
Leontes and Crispus were responsible for
the actual development of stone
sysm and Zino's role as a founder is
more of a symbolic one nonetheless it
remains a key figure in the history of
stoicism thank you for watching
[Music]
you